= rspec-prof

Integrates ruby-prof with RSpec, allowing you to easily profile your RSpec examples.

== Installation

  gem install rspec-prof

== Setup

You'd probably ought to enable the gem in your spec_helper.rb file:
  gem 'rspec-prof'
  require 'rspec-prof'
  
Or, in Rails 2 (config/environment.rb):
  config.gem 'rspec-prof'
  
Or, in Rails 3 (Gemfile):
  group :test do
    gem 'rspec-prof'
  end

== Usage

Easy, peasy: in your spec files, simply add a "profile" context:

  describe MyAwesomeObject do
    context "with an awesome string" do
      subject { MyAwesomeObject.new("an awesome string") }
      
      profile do    # profile these examples!
        it "should be awesome" do
          subject.should be_awesome
        end
        
        it "should be epic" do
          subject.should be_epic
        end
      end
      
      # not profiled:
      it "should not be fail" do
        subject.should_not be_fail
      end
    end
  end
  
The usage overviewed above will, by default, profile each spec independently. If you need to profile all of them in a 
single go, that's easy too:

  describe MyAwesomeObject do
    # . . .
    
    profile :all do   # run all of these examples in a single profile
      # . . .
    end
  end

You can also explicitly pass an :each option to #profile, if it makes you feel better. There are a number of other
options that you can pass in the form of a hash, such as min_percent:

  describe MyAwesomeObject do
    # . . .
    
    profile :min_percent => 0.01 do
      # . . .
    end
  end
  
For an exhaustive list of options, see the RSpecProf::Profiler class.

=== Suspending RSpecProf

You probably don't want to run the profiler every time you run a spec, because the profiler by its very nature will slow
down your app and, therefore, limit your productivity. To disable profiling without having to change your specs, simply
add this to your spec helper:

  RSpecProf.disable!
  
...and you're done. In case you need it (but I doubt you will because it's on by default), you can also enable the
profiler similarly:

  RSpecProf.enable!

== Known Limitations

* ruby-prof cannot multithread. Therefore, RSpecProf also cannot multithread. If you try, you SHOULD get a warning (but
  just in case, this is your warning too) that the profiling cannot be performed due to multithreading. RSpecProf SHOULD
  disable itself at this point and allow your specs to run normally.
* Profile blocks cannot be nested within each other. To do so would require multithreading and, even were it possible,
  I'm not sure how RSpecProf would be expected to comply; instead, RSpecProf will merely raise an error and your specs
  will fail.
* I think that's it.  

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Colin MacKenzie IV. See LICENSE for details.
